Two-dimensional square lattice gas model
by Andrew M. Launder

This program takes a random square lattice of two molecular types (A and B)
as the input for the 2D lattice gas model.

Once you've compiled the program, ensure that your working directory contains a file named "input.dat".
    
    The first line of this file is a comment line, and has no effect on the program output.
    Each of the remaining lines should be structured as follows:
        keyword keyword_value
    The available keywords are as follows:
    
    temp: the temperature of the Boltzmann distribution law (REQUIRED).
    
    nsnaps: the number of snapshots (lattices) to produce.
    
    niters: the number of iterations used in the Metropolis algorithm.
    
    xdim: the first dimension of the lattice (in number of cells).
    
    ydim: the second dimension of the lattice (in number of cells).
    
    na: the number of A-type molecules.
    
    nb: the number of B-type molecules.
    
    eaa: the energy of the A-A interactions.
    
    ebb: the energy of the B-B interactions.
    
    eab: the energy of the A-B interactions.
    
    entropy: controls local entropy calculation.
             Default value is 0, indicating that local-state-based entropy WILL NOT be calculated.
             If a positive integer is entered,
             this is interpreted as the order at which the local-state-based entropy WILL be calculated.*
    
    color: controls color-coded lattice printing.
           Default value is "n", indicating that color-coded lattice(s) WILL NOT be printed to the standard output stream.
           The other option is "y", indicating that color-coded lattice(s) WILL be printed to the standard output stream.
    
Once you have prepared your input file, enter the following into the command line:
    
    path/to/executable/latticegas.exe
    
This program will write four types of output files:
    
    output.dat: main output file.
                Only one of these will be written.
                Contains simulation parameters and initial lattice data,
                as well as final lattice data for each snapshot.
    
    .energy files: for a given snapshot,
                   the energy of each iteration.
    
    .GraphGeod files: for a given snapshot,
                      the resultant graph,
                      as well as the A-A, B-B, and A-B layers,
                      formatted as ChemNetworks .GraphGeod outputs.
    
    .xyz file: for a given snapshot,
               the resultant Cartesian coordinates,
               as well as those for the A-A, B-B, and A-B graph layers.
    
Note that periodic boundary conditions are in use.

*If the local entropy calculation is requested, states are defined according to the following scheme,
     3
   2 1 2
 3 1 0 1 3
   2 1 2
     3
where cell labeled with a 0 is the cell for which a local state is being defined.
For a requested order, all cells labeled in this scheme up to that order will be included in the local state definition.
See Meirovitch, H., Chem. Phys. Lett., 45, 389 (1977) for context
(note that M = nsnaps in this program, and each final equilibrated configuration is sampled).
